## Contributing to the Linux Kernel

Mainline
https://github.com/torvalds/linux.git

staging-testing
git://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/gregkh/staging.git

## QnA
<details>
<summary>Why and how can there be so many drivers in the actual source code of the linux kernel? How can the kernel be maintained efficiently?<summary>

>>> How can the linux kernel possibly have drivers
... for so many devices? does it not get too heavy
... and inefficient to have it in the kernel source
...  code?
You're right; the Linux kernel's sheer size
and complexity can be overwhelming,
especially considering its massive driver
repository.

**Linux Kernel's Approach:**

The Linux kernel uses a modular design, which
allows drivers for specific hardware devices
to be compiled separately from the main
kernel source. This approach enables:

1. **Loose Coupling**: Drivers are not
tightly coupled with the kernel code, making
it easier to maintain and update individual
components.
2. **Flexibility**: Users can choose which
drivers to compile into their kernel image,
depending on the hardware they have or want
to use.
3. **Reusability**: Drivers for similar
devices (e.g., multiple wireless chips) are
often shared across different kernel
versions.

**Staging Area and Experimental Code:**

The `drivers/staging` directory you saw
earlier is a holding area for new or
experimental drivers that aren't yet ready
for inclusion in the mainline kernel. These
drivers go through a testing and review
process before being moved to their
respective permanent locations within the
kernel source.

**Main Driver Sources:**

Most drivers are actually maintained by
external organizations, such as:

1. **Linux Driver Project (LDP)**: A
community-driven initiative that hosts a vast
collection of Linux device drivers.
2. **Device Manufacturers**: Many companies
maintain and contribute their own device
drivers to the Linux kernel.
3. **Distribution Makers**: Some distributors
(e.g., Ubuntu) also create and distribute
custom kernel versions with additional
drivers.

**Why it works:**

Despite the massive number of drivers, the
Linux kernel's modular design and
decentralized maintenance model help keep its
core codebase relatively small and efficient.
The sheer size and complexity come from:

1. **Device Diversity**: There are countless
hardware devices out there.
2. **User Customization**: Users can choose
which drivers to use or disable unwanted
ones.

However, this approach also means that
maintaining the Linux kernel's stability and
security is a collective effort among many
contributors, developers, and users.

**Inefficiencies and Limitations:**

While the current system works, it does have
some limitations and inefficiencies:

1. **Code Duplication**: Similar code might
exist in multiple places within the kernel
source.
2. **Tangled Dependencies**: As more drivers
are added, dependencies between them can
become increasingly complex.
3. **Debugging Challenges**: Isolating issues
in the kernel or specific drivers can be
time-consuming and challenging.

**Future Directions:**

To address these concerns, various
initiatives aim to:

1. **Simplify and Streamline**: Refactor
code, eliminate duplication, and improve
driver organization.
2. **Improve Debugging Tools**: Develop more
effective debugging tools and techniques to
help identify issues quickly.
3. **Emphasize Modularity**: Continue to
modularize the kernel code, making it easier
to maintain and update individual components.

The Linux kernel's size and complexity will
likely continue to grow as new technologies
emerge, but its design and maintenance model
are carefully managed to ensure stability,
security, and efficiency.

</details>
